Why I Choose Computer Engineering
I choose Computer Engineering because it allows me to understand and shape how software and hardware interact. I prefer the challenge of working with both hardware and software rather than to focusing only one. I also hope to serve in the Air Force as a Cybersecurity Officer because security vulnerabilities affect both hardware and software. Being able to secure both hardware and software. The main reason I choose Computer Engineering is to create useful tools that solve everyday problems and protect others.

High School
My early interest begins with fixing and building devices. With my parents’ phones, I fix them with replacement parts just at the start of high school. Sometimes I can’t repair certain devices, but it allows me to grasp a better understanding of the inner works. I build my first computer that started with an AMD Ryzen 3 continues to upgrade over the years with now a Ryzen 7 3700X. Being able to see how the software receives inputs from the digitizer to the programs utilizing CPU resources shows that both hardware and software are important. Useful computer systems rely on both software and hardware. Without software or programs, hardware is just sitting physical waste of space. Without hardware, I cannot run software or programs because I don’t have anything to run them on. When software pairs with hardware, we can use things like Microsoft Word, play video games, and take pictures. This relationship is exactly the thing that makes me interested in my major and career.

Learning Pathway Reason
The growth of this relationship is what I am chasing. From working on LEGO Mindstorms in robotics Classes to using Raspberry Pi and experimenting with my own server rack, it has truly been amazing. I am able to understand how hardware from the Dell XPS 610 can be utilized to host LAN (Local Area Network) services for my home. I gain also greater understanding of how the cloud works through website creation and deployment of such website through Google Firebase and GitHub Actions.
Problems that usually catch my attention the most are always anything to do with efficiency. Lack of efficiency or the potential to have efficiency is always my greatest motivators. This force me to find methods and ways to make redundant tasks automated whether through custom initiatives or software provided actions.

College Today
My freshman year, my friends and I apply to our first ever hackathon at UCR. Through this hackathon, we learn a lot about different tools we have at our fingertips through workshop. The project is more important which utilizes an android. Our idea was to create an app with all safety location of the Blue Emergency Call Boxes around campus and have a request like feature for assistance through nightly walks and such. This project introduces me to Google Cloud and its APIs of which I realize was one of the many ways may programs and software are run. I use the Google Maps API. Once it came to showcase, there is quite a few people that give interest in our project, but the hackathon website misflags our project, and we got exclusion from the competition unknowingly. We get resolve after, but we never got any formal recognition of our standing from the hackathon. Although the experience is sometimes sour, the skills I learn stick by me to this day.
I create a dashboard portal for my AFROTC Detachment which has about 130 people using it for feedback and administration tasks. This empowers both the learner and the teacher in the most basic sense to cut down on trivial tasks and focus on the transfer of knowledge and experience. These types of tools are exactly what I hope to bring about to the world.
Aside from that there is also the Senior Design Project my team and I are working on. Taking inspiration from WALL-E, we are making such a robot that can help with collecting waste and compressing waste through hardware, software, and mechanical feats. This project hopes to achieve a cleaner environment with UCR being the test location. Whether we use AWS or Radio for communication, the robot itself will have trained LLM to identify trash and navigate streets.
Being able to continue all these types of projects and learning how I can utilize what now exists in the world is something that I think is amazing. I make new tools to help with everyday student life. I learn everyday about new topics regarding Computer Engineering. I adapt what I learn to my life.

Everyday Automation
What makes this program uniquely hard is the fact that I must travel to both universities UCR and CSUSB. The addition of cross-enrollment for my Air Force Career makes my academic career quite a challenge. This is something I cannot fix overnight. It takes small tweaks of adjustment to maintain balance. And at any time if I have long labs or assignments, I need to cut something out to put in more time for my academia. The tight due dates when in comparison to hours of instruction week was always daunting, but through isolation and organization, I’ve always been able to bounce back. More importantly of all, is the complexities of learning both electrical engineering and computer science makes it hard to focus on a certain subject or aspect.
I create tools such as automatic email reminders, google sheets, and taskers to make my life efficient. This helps me focus on the important things of the day. I make a website and it reminds tasks, traffic, and weather.
